okay so let's kick this off
um today we're trying to make a very
important decision with regards to how
Stellar assets are represented in
soroban and this is
um a decision that we've been
exploring various paths to achieve and
uh in in the past few months and we've
gotten to a point where we really need
to make a decision and uh and anchor
this so that we can move forward
so in order to facilitate this
discussion we put together this doc uh
which Justin just shared in the live
chat uh if uh if you haven't read it
please
um open it up and take a look at it
while we're talking because it's very
important
um so the kind of like the Crux of the
decision that we need to make is between
this idea of
um how Stellar assets are represented in
in soroban the current implementation
that we have is has like this maximum uh
separation where sorobond tokens are
completely uh detached from Stellar
assets so you can have a balance both in
a stellar trust line and in a soroban uh
token by balance
um and we're trying to figure out
whether we want to keep it that way or
uh change
um to a single balance approach before
we touch on what a single balance
approach means I do want to mention that
we talk a lot about wrap tokens here rap
tokens is is probably a really bad
semantics it's a bit vestigial to how we
uh how we refer to these tokens when we
when we started off so we'll probably
um uh change up semantics but I just
want everyone to be on the same page
that we're talking about you know what
is the sorobond interface into Stellar
Stellar assets
so
um I talked a bit about dual balance
approach the single balance approach is
that basically accounts have just a
single balance in their trust line and
that is also exposed as a sorbon balance
through this built-in contract
we put together in the stock a set of
requirements and non-requirements we
haven't gotten a lot of feedback on
these so I think it looks like people
are on the same page
um and
maybe because single balance approach is
a bit new uh lee uh would you mind uh I
don't want to poke you too hard but can
you give a very high level overview of
the single balance approach as the
original proposer
yeah so um
uh yeah so the the goal with the single
balance approach is really to
um to make it so that any participant in
the ecosystem uh when they're
interacting with an asset that exists on
Stella today in a truck being held in a
trust line
they only have one place to look for
they for that account so that account
um you know an application doesn't need
to know a wallet developer doesn't need
to know they need to go and look at
balances in two places they only need to
look at that one place users don't need
to decide where
um you know which balance they're going
to send from or send to all of those
things but on the same note with the
single balance is really mostly focused
on Stellar assets
so you know if somebody goes and makes a
token on sarban
um their own custom token
um you know that that's like a
completely separate thing so
um so the idea with single balances is
um the if you're interacting with that
Stellar asset
um within sarban
um you know it looks to you just like
it's any other token so it's a stellar
assets still have
uh are still exposed in Soren with the
exact same token interface they look
like any other
um token uh like an erc20 style token on
sorbin but we're just storing that
balance in the trust line so there's
just a single location
right and and there's some
um fork in the second section of this
dock around single balances whether uh
you know the trust line semantics are
only preserved for accounts or do we uh
include trust lines for new types of
entities like contracts and this um uh
in this approach and and we can talk a
bit about that
um later I think my my first big
question probably would be to uh
Siddharth if you're if you're live on
this I know you you've been the main
implementer you and John for uh uh dual
balances and maybe you can share with us
from like uh you know from a Hands-On
technical perspective if we are going to
move to a single balance approach what
would be the implications
yeah so
you know our like I've John and I took
the perspective that
we would like to minimize the
relationship between classic and sorbon
uh what and I say minimize because we
can't like importing and exporting
actually touches
uh I require sorbon to interact with
trust lines and you know there's
actually some pretty uh complex code in
there where we actually replicate
uh electrostline semantics in sorbon
uh
like
I I think I I I think we should like I I
I'm still I'm still like support uh on
that side in that you know that question
the thing you mentioned about how uh
trust lines on for contracts not just
seller accounts that I think is like
moving in the wrong direction if we do
single balances we are introducing more
of classic into sorbonne and we're
introducing more of the classic protocol
into sorbon and when it's much simpler
to maintain the separation as much as we
can
uh
so
that specific point is something and I
think and Nico has a strong opinion
there as well we can we can ask uh we
can ask that later I think that the
before we go to that the question is you
know you mentioned that right now we're
replicating trust line semantics in
um sorovan because we need to interact
with trust lines through the Import and
Export functionality so that is true for
dual balances
um and obviously it will also be true
um if we go for like a single balance
approach is there significantly uh
more
kind of like classic semantics that we
need to
um uh that we need to adopt in order to
move to single balances
uh the answer I would the answer is no I
don't think there would be significant
uh any significant changes for example I
think we've talked about so you can
actually use those functions the
functions that Import and Export use to
implement a transfer uh using the single
balance world right
um so in that case there would not be
you know it's not like the tone contract
would change much I mean we already have
to pre-flight with the trust lines right
um you're just you know it's pretty much
like a
you're just running an import right uh
as a transfer uh it's just like there's
there's some slight differences so yeah
if the answer to that is no there are I
don't think there would be significant
differences
okay so I just want to make sure we're
all on the same page with regards to
what you're saying here you're saying
that in terms of interaction with
classic what do we have right now as
import export on Dual balances
um you can think of a single balance
transfer as basically like as these two
things can combine like an import and
expert at the same time uh so there's no
added overhead of like interaction with
the class approach
no
there isn't
okay so before we go into the details of
uh more uh kind of like thinking about
uh the specific implementation of single
balances is there anyone here that wants
to like Advocate some more for dual
balances
I mean okay maybe the only thing I can
add to to this thing to the Dual balance
uh like what is good about the dura
durable so I think it's actually on the
performance side
um
because if you con if you think about
the type of legendaries that you need uh
in the
dual balance world when you're doing uh
sorbent payments
uh you only have to deal with basically
one place whereas in the
single
uh balanced world when you do things
like uh allowances now you're dealing
with well actually you're dealing with
two
um Legend trees plus you need to read uh
issue our information uh you know from
classic so there's like some other added
overheads but you know we can maybe set
that for the performance or
implementation discussion
okay but I just want to make sure like
when we're dealing with allowances today
um even if it's pure sorobon you still
need to touch
both the balance Ledger entry and the
allowance Ledger entry right
yeah I think the only difference would
be anything you would read from the
issuer right because you still have two
balances you're gonna transfer
on the StoryBots side and you know on
the classic side you have two trust
lines
yeah so you have like you have the one
time transfer right like like as far as
like the balance where we store it
versus the allowances there is actually
no
um requirement that they are separate in
the current implementation
you could actually store them in the
same place too that's true you're saying
that you would have one Ledger entry
with right all the information yeah
that's not how it works at the moment
but that is true
I think that's a bit weird because
balance is
operate on a key of a single account and
allowances operate on two accounts like
who owns the balance and who gets the
allowance
right it doesn't matter it's basically
on one when you do a payment as part of
an allowance right you you have like one
of the endpoints is basically
holding the allowance
so you pick which side but it doesn't
need to be a third one
right but but also just to zoom in on
that sit in terms of if we want to
adhere to
um current authorization semantics even
if the do with the Dual balances
approach
isn't there a read to the issuer account
anyway
yeah if you want to do uh like if you
want to check off required for example
is that what you were talking about yeah
yeah there is the issuer although you
can minimize that right at least like
that prototype we I wrote up if it's an
you can only need to check if it's a New
Balance after that auth required doesn't
matter right
um but that I mean that's like a minor
implementation detail
does that make sense
yep that makes sense uh I see that Eric
is raising his hand maybe you can invite
him to speak
Eric you're invited
hey can you hear me yeah
um I just wanted to ask are there any
security implications in terms of
surface area uh in the in the single
balance approach because in the Dual
balance approach it feels like classical
assets are pretty separated from Smart
contracts and they can't be interacted
with directly and so on uh so in terms
of things we may not have thought of
bugs that could be introduced and so on
are there any security implications
uh by getting a single process
by the way this is a question that Fred
from Lightman was asking in the live
chat too
yeah and I think that's a really good
point I think it's in the docs somewhere
but
um just to give some more context on
this uh you know smart contract balances
are susceptible to
um various approval issues so let's say
for example that either
maliciously or uh because of an error a
contract asks me for like uh to approve
more uh
funds than they actually need and they
somehow managed to get me to sign that
approval now they can access funds that
logically I don't want them to have
access to
um and that's definitely a problem and
that's definitely an issue that if with
the clear separation of classic and
sorobon
um it it doesn't exist
um it's and by the way this is a problem
in in blockchains and in general and and
defy I do think that there are user
um actions that can uh that can
alleviate some of this I can basically
have like you know different accounts uh
for uh as a user I can have different
accounts for you know the risky stuff
quote-unquote that I'm doing in
soroban versus the the less risky stuff
I'm doing in in Stellar but the the
protocol doesn't mandate that separation
but yeah I think that's a that's a super
important uh perspective here
if
and and maybe like I'll add to this that
in terms of risk
uh if you look at either implementation
has actually a way to manipulate the um
the the trust line right the balance on
the classic side
uh so like either it's like through this
bridge you know like import export type
of function or uh it's actual you know
when you do a transfer
in either case if you have a bug you're
kind of you know in trouble so I think
it doesn't like from that point of view
implementation wide I I don't think it
has uh you know much consequences
actually
yeah I agree with you I think from an
implementation perspective it's the same
surface area uh but at uh like Eric and
and Fred's point the approval
uh surface area is a bit more robe for
people to hang themselves with
but that's something that yeah I mean I
guess maybe something here but that's
not part of this conversation because
you know like at the same time I do want
the serban tokens to be secure right so
I think I think this is part of like uh
improvements we can make to the uh
contract interface
um I think they are like obvious flaws
in if you were taking their verba team
something like erc20 yeah I know we
already started to incorporate some of
the changes that were done later but it
you know we don't need to stop there
right like it's something that I think
we have to double down on actually
before we launch that thing
right and and here's a this is a a great
Shameless plug for some of the work that
we've been doing on our token contract
with supporting things like
um
um like permit style approvals in which
you only approve the specific amount
that
um uh that you'd like your you know D5
protocol to use at the time
so I do want to go a bit further down
the document and
um Talk a bit about this uh trust line
yes trust line no trust line discussion
that we've had
um I know that the original proposal
that Lee made was to preserve for a
single balance was to preserve trust
lines only for accounts but uh contracts
and other non-account entities uh do not
require a trust line
um which means that they can do things
like you know they don't have a minimal
Reserve
um and they don't need to opt in to hold
an asset
um there's another folk in the road that
we can take and which is to
um to mandate trust lines across the
board even for non-account entities like
contracts like other identifiers
um Lee can you tell us a bit about why
the original proposal
um did not have trust lines for
non-account identifiers
but
yeah
um I guess it just didn't seem
particularly necessary like uh accounts
have trust lines today and so they have
a balance that's there and everybody
knows where to go to find that balance
um when contracts exist tomorrow uh or
now in future net
um
uh you know we already
I think that's that's an entirely new
thing like there's not really any need
for them to depend on trust lines well
we don't expect them to
um inherit everything uh you know all
the semantics around trust lines so
um
yeah I guess this didn't really seem
like an obvious advantage to do so um
but maybe there's some implementation
reason to do so
got it and I will mention that there is
a non-requirement section in this Doc
and uh a later addition to the
non-requirements is that opting in to
hold a stellar asset is not a hard
requirement so today you need to
explicitly create a trust line in order
to hold an asset and we are loosening
this requirement for the sake of interop
um right now we haven't gotten any
um to be honest we haven't had gotten
any qualitative feedback on uh either
direction whether this this is really
good or really bad but we do know that
trust lines have been uh an extreme pain
in the ass to a lot of us throughout the
years and we are looking uh for uh for
ways around them uh which some of these
proposals include including 2.1
um and yeah this is uh still an open
question but
um
we're probably going to loosen that
request
um Nico can you uh talk a bit from a
technical perspective what are the
implications for for not having uh trust
lines on contracts and why do you think
we should have them
so yeah like the trust lines when I say
trust lines here by the way like I
didn't mean necessarily A
classic dress line it's more of a
standardized
format right like a ledger entry or
whatever for holding balances that I'm
thinking about and this would be
so that
um when we think about wallets uh you
don't have to necessarily
um
like right now the way you can get a
balance for cereban
token is
is by calling the get balance endpoint
on the on the token
um and there is basically no way to do
something
um efficient like what you like uh like
a block Explorer Style
uh you know give me the balance for any
Ledger entry uh or any account right a
servant account
um
so so that what I was thinking is that
maybe
there's room there for for that
um and in particular I was thinking in
the context of classic uh so classic
assets so existing assets that are being
held by let's say a smart contract
wallet uh so basically Where You Are uh
balance is not held behind a stellar
account but held by a
by contract that enforces you know
policies basically
um like in that world
uh it's
you you don't have the Horizon
experience basically that you get with a
classic account like a a standard
account
and that felt a bit
um
like a limiting right from a
like a efficiency point of view and all
that I mean I can see that for the
if you get into the generic uh you know
type of contracts
um you can do a lot better than calling
the you know the actual get balance
because you know maybe it is actually
some actual code happening there uh but
for those uh type of accounts the
classic uh classic assets right like uh
I thought we could actually do something
a little bit closer to what you get with
standard icons if that makes sense
so I think this touches on how
Downstream systems
um handle tokens I think it's still an
open question for uh Horizon for example
how they deal with with tokens
um Eric do you see
um Horizon actually reporting token
balances for contracts
um like you say I think that is still an
open question that we're thinking about
there's pros and cons here obviously if
we go down this road where assets and
tokens become the same thing then you
sort of get a default uh answer to that
question
but um
in theory you can imagine a world where
there's some kind of standardized token
uh that obeys the interface of of you
know the standard contract and we make
that available the question that I want
to understand if we're going to go down
that road is what other use cases there
and can we solve those problems in other
ways say through uh streaming endpoints
and then fast catch up for history so I
think we're still trying to understand
the use cases and with respect to
Horizon in general there's this question
of uh what does horizon solve and for
who Horizon is like a Swiss Army
chainsaw you can do everything it turns
out that when you actually analyze what
people use Horizon for
uh the vast majority of users are using
a very small number of endpoints and
also in a relatively recent time period
so we have the possibility to
differentiate with different products
that can actually map much more cleanly
to the actual requirements right so
that's like part of where we're thinking
and trying to understand better what uh
will be the best form factor so I don't
have an immediate answer but it's
definitely something we're actively
trying to understand more
I I love Swiss Army chainsaw I think
that should be the description on the
GitHub repo
um so it does seem like if we're
thinking about Downstream systems uh you
know going back to the big discussion of
single balances versus dual balances it
does seem like single balances is the
least amount of friction to actually get
Horizon to keep accurately report
um
um you know like the classic account
balances
yes I would say yes and no yes in the
sense that it uh on the face of it feels
like there will be almost no work
required it will just automatically
happen
um the complication is to think about
whether having it automatically happen
is in the end uh a net positive right so
to give you one example of a trade-off
that we have here when Horizon provides
token balances natively
um that actually encourages some
centralization in the ecosystem because
in practice today most Horizon users
actually use the SDF Horizon instance
um another example is well if we
actually identified the need for tokens
uh we could produce a form factor that's
extremely minimal uh that lots of people
could run very cheaply that might
actually Aid our decentralization goal
so there are some questions around that
kind of stuff that you know I would like
to put some ideas on the table around
but it is true that I think from our
perspective if balance is combined they
would just pop up and appear in Horizon
and I do see a benefit from a usability
standpoint it is pretty confusing to
consider them tokens and assets as
separate things
uh yeah
I imagine you'd still have to account
for trust for transfers that go in and
out of things that you're not tracking
like contracts
um so yeah that's true
but that's much more bounded problem
yeah I hear you
um Sid you were talking a bit about
um your
um concerns with adding
um kind of like opt-in semantics to uh
contracts and other sorobon entities can
you
um tell us a bit about your concerns
yeah I mean for example if you know you
have a liquidity pool uh that's going to
accept that that's going to allow
trading uh with like a classic asset
um so the contract would have to opt in
right that's friction uh I mean if this
it sounds like this it won't be an
actual trust line which is where some of
my concerns were
um but yeah I had questions like who
would own the trust the trust line
um and just it adds friction that and
that I don't think is necessary and it's
something I talked to Nico briefly about
but uh you know if you really wanted the
balance of a contract uh or the token
balances for any for a tone contract you
could actually look at The Ledger
entries right and maybe this is
something we can encourage that that is
an option
right uh like like the structure is
pretty well defined at least for the the
built-in token contract
uh
so I don't like this sounds like
something that we don't need to do it
was pretty much what Lee said right like
accounts already have trust lines and
that's where the balances live
uh but a special case the balances for
contracts
uh it it doesn't sound like like unless
we have a really good reason to do it I
don't see why we would
got it
um another thing that is an open
question for uh for single balances is
whether or not we make them compatible
with uh classic Stellar operations like
for example can I just like make a
regular payment to a contract
um this is uh actually in the
non-requirements section but it's still
an open implementation detail
um and
um I was wondering if people here have
any
um
um opinions in the space
I mean to me that seems like a pretty
good thing to have
um just because like you can imagine a
situation where maybe there's like I
don't know like some contract or
something that's so successful that we
want to like
Implement that functionality in in
classic and make it you know super
efficient or something so the more uh
sort of compatibility you have like like
the easier that is to do without sort of
upending things the better
so I have I have concerns about that
David
um I think one of the concerns is that
uh like what is the use case like
usually when you send funds to a Smart
contract you actually want to do
something on a smart contract side for
example you know I don't just like send
funds to UNI swap to get a swap I
actually send funds and I uh facilitate
a swap so just you know just letting the
classic operations
um send to a contract or a payment sent
to a contract doesn't necessarily
um save me the need to communicate with
that contract on the soroban side so if
it doesn't necessarily save me that much
and if classic operators on the network
think exchanges for example
have to uh adapt their currently
supported operations and you know this
is something that we've had uh a lot of
uh pain with dealing with exchanges I'd
support for muxed accounts most of them
still don't
um I think
I think that's a like a strong argument
to
um you know to keep the you know the
smart stuff on the smart side
I don't I I don't think that's
necessarily what uh David was saying
it's like he like I think the idea is
more like if you have
scenarios that are very high value you
don't want to necessarily
uh have this kind of uh like concretely
uh
uh like like Frozen
um you know like a wall between what is
classic today and and soroban like I
think over time we want to kind of have
some ways to integrate those uh a bit
better
and
and this doesn't necessarily mean like
you have to uh for example
uh use the same data you know like
format in you know in behind uh you know
the the scene but like
um you need to kind of think ahead in
terms of
what type of
interactions I want to enable in the
future like for me like the deposit into
a contract
uh like in the the shot uh you know like
uh like in the near future I would say
yeah it's for something like an mm no
use case right or like those
optimizations right away you can think
of like maybe it's like an actual
deposit and do stuff right that we under
implementing natively but like I do
think that in the short term those type
of uh depositing into a smart contract
is actually useful uh if that smart
contract is a wallet
so I guess I've heard this brought up a
couple times and I like this idea of a
smart contract wallet and and this is
kind of the the like concept that
concerns me because the whole if the
whole thing that we're debating is
you know single balance versus dual
balance and our solution to single
balance is to keep Stellar Assets in
Stellar trust lines
but we could also still have this smart
contract wallet that bypasses trust
lines and it sounds like we could end up
in a world where there are still two
balances
um like we could we could end up in a
world where even if we go with the
single balance approach we end up in a
world where there are dual balances and
applications still have to look in two
different places
I'm following like I think what you're
saying is because you have to when you
think of like this this the uh
contractors or what it I think this is
actually something we're discussing
actually uh in a different context in in
uh in the existing protocol that was we
wanted to decouple your identity on the
network in in today on the network is
kind of your master or public key right
and often and so in something else you
you have like you actually have like
different Keys attached to that thing
and you actually disable your master key
um and then your identity is kind of
weird because it's this uh you know
public key that actually doesn't mean
anything
um so at some point we were talking
about hey maybe we should have accounts
like your actual identity is like uh you
know a hash or something something more
deterministic and and then you the way
you authorize uh using this account is
actually a separate topic right
um and I think in soroban you have
actually a similar analogy there where
your identity your account is actually
the contract or some maybe like some
other like Alias on top of that but
basically your
you have that as an identity as in and
then how you use it right how you
um withdraw funds or you know platform
transactions with that uh with that
account is actually the uh managed by
the account so you can have like very
flexible type of uh policies right
around how the account works that's
that's like uh I don't know if you
looked at the um
I mean this is a topic for a different
day because we are actually been
thinking a lot about authorization right
like in an authentication
um and I don't think we're ready to kind
of discuss this in this meeting but like
there are things that are highly
inspired by the type of research in
Italian that has been done with the
account abstractions and things like
that
great so I think if I try to summarize
what Nico is saying there are ways uh if
users choose to do that there are ways
in which they can have
um you know on under the same
um you know signer they can have
multiple balances whether you have like
multiple accounts with the same signer
or whether you have multiple smart
wallets with the same signer uh on the
on the smart side the question is what
is like the what is the default Behavior
like do we default to two balances uh
like in the Dual balances proposals or
do we default to a single balance
foreign
okay
um I I am going to say that we have been
getting a lot of overwhelming
um
like the the responses tend to be
towards the single balance uh approach
um and so I just want to open it up for
um you know anyone else who's who's in
the crowd right now I think this is a
lot of people uh if anyone wants to talk
in favor of dual balances
foreign
okay hang on go
I just said hi Kyle here I just have a
general question around dual balances
versus single balances is there any so
if we think about use cases down the
line for sorobon you know either at an
Enterprise level or a consumer level is
there any reason why the double balance
would make more sense
um to enable
other use cases I just want to ensure
like as we were discussing this is there
any limitations to use cases dependent
upon this decision
so I I do want to mention that uh if you
look at the dock uh at the top section
there's semantics you can create pure
soroban tokens that either adhere to our
standard interface or even adhere to
whatever weird interface you want like
none of this actually prevents you from
doing pure soroban whatever crazy asset
you can imagine the the context of this
discussion is for these standard assets
that are issued on the Stellar status
Stellar assets that are already
supported in various exchanges and
custody Solutions and wallets uh like
for these assets what capabilities we
have on the soroban side now there are
the Dual balances if you look at the pro
section for dual bounces there are
several things there for example you
have
um you know you can have a a much bigger
your balance because the standard token
contracts
have an i and and into a 128 integer
type instead of the the kind of like the
sine 64-bit integer that we have in in
Stellar assets so there are there are
some like small things there but
generally speaking from a capability
perspective I don't think we're uh we're
losing anything significant by moving a
single balance
thanks for the answer
and maybe like something I will add to
to this is that one of the like things
that
that is actually a big TBD right like we
don't know it's in the I think it's in
this last section like open issues is
um by uh
when you move to this single balance
right like you you you have to support
some of the clicks that you know from
the uh uh like um from the the classic
tokens like in particular you have like
the the balance question like what is
the balance of the account because there
is a difference between the what you
want to show in the in a UI depending on
the scenario right like is it the usable
balance or is it the your actual net
balance you know accounting for
liabilities
um so this will actually have
consequences on the um
token interface and as a and because of
that right like you end up actually
taking on
this type of this type of additional
requirements for any token that you want
to issue on the network even if it
doesn't it's not a classic token right
so like those other tokens basically
need to implement
the uh like if we if we need a concept
of liabilities for example like uh they
need to implement that and maybe they
are there are no apps but you still need
to think about that stuff
yeah so to your point Nico I think you
know I think we I commented on the
google.com this but the idea of having
like a like a get available balance on
the standardized like token contract
doesn't seem like a huge Legend and like
standardized or sorry native tokens on
sorbon the value returned from get
balance and get available balance would
effectively always be the same you know
if as long as it's the standard token
contract but
um
but I I do agree I think personally
though this is a pretty easy uh
adjustment that we can make so like you
you know just having a get available
balance that you know takes away
liabilities
um from the return value
I mean this is one of the ones we know
right like we as we go through the you
know designing this I think we may find
more of this type of stuff like the
if you want to to write like a safe code
you know like you need to ensure that
you're not overflowing in different ways
uh like which is something you don't
necessarily need to care about as much
in the uh in the uint uh 120 you know
because the interface is even oh in one
uh 28 right
um
whereas here the balance is hidden
as a 64-bit number
so you have to deal with like a special
you know uh checks and in order to
perform those checks if you don't want
the the payment later to fail
and you want to kind of pre you know
like as part of pre-flight I don't know
some other check right that you want to
to ensure that the payment would work
you need to know what the behavior what
are the safety you know like what are
the constraints right on your own on
your balance for example maybe I don't
know like I think this is the type of
stuff we'll have to go through
yeah seriously
and I think this is an important con
that we uh it's in the dark but we
haven't discussed today which is uh you
actually uh there's this idiosyncrasy
where the uh the single balances are in
practice you know when they're in a
trust line they're constrained to a
64-bit integer but the actual interface
the current interface that we're
discussing is uh 128 bit integer so you
have these uh failures that are
unexpected just by
um kind of like observing the types
uh they're unexpected but it's I think
it's important that we recognize that
those failures can happen anyway so you
know if you have a near max 128-bit
value in your in your contract data and
you try to add a value that's kind of
overflow you're going to get narrower so
this it's not like this is a new error
case it's an existing error case
um it's just that
um if you take if you have a less than
if you have a less than 64-bit value in
there and you add another 64-bit value
you might assume that that would succeed
one of my fail
um so I think like that's the
exactly like the code the contract code
is written you know you write checked
code basically using 128-bit arithmetic
but then when you actually if you are
actually interacting with those other
contracts you uh those classic contracts
you actually get some other Trader mode
so your check code is
no irrelevant basically
Lee were you trying to say something
yeah I think it's a really good point I
I think the more like over time once
there are custom tokens or like new
forms of tokens
um
they're going to have new failure modes
too so I'm not sure like how like I'm
not really sure how much contracts
should try
um can make assumptions about that sort
of thing anyway but
like if we're talking about Stellar
assets and everything is just a stellar
asset then I could definitely see people
making those assumptions
so yeah that could be bad
got it and uh lee after uh
Nico talked a bit about uh why he's
interested in adding the opt-in
semantics uh even for dual balances even
for single balances
um it are you uh persuaded in any way
leader muted yeah I I feel like I want
to think about it a bit more but I like
um this second model is
I think
the arguments for it are that are
compelling
um it's just the the 120 and 128 bit
issue is is what gets me
got it
um okay
um
Justin do we have any uh questions from
the audience
well first of all I think if anyone is
in the audience and wants to speak you
can raise your hand and we can bring you
onto the stage
there is actually a fair amount going on
in in the live chat Channel although a
lot of it's sort of been answered in one
way or another
um either via text in the live Channel
because people are sort of talking
amongst themselves
um
trying to look through to see any that
haven't already come up or that haven't
already been answered
got it so there is one question that I
want to uh ask the group about this is
not actually part of of this specific
decision but as we're talking about uh
the capabilities of this um you know
this single balances token contract
should we consider you know there are
two built-in token contracts that we're
talking about right now one of them is a
pure soroban uh token contact
implementation the other is this rap
token contract or single or or just an
interface to Classic assets uh which by
the way right now is implemented as an
extension of that first contract
should we just ditch
um all together the concept of a native
soroban only built-in token contract in
favor of the Stellar asset one or should
we maintain both of these
so the argument this is something Nico's
brought up before they argument to
keeping it is that the the Nate the uh
pyrosauribon contract would be more
performant right you don't have to spin
up a custom laws in VM well yeah a
separate wise and Via just for the
invocation into that contract but it's
not necessary right because the the
point of the
we only need to make it native we only
need to make the classical in Native
because you uh so you can run the Import
and Export
um so we could remove it now
um it's just that anyone has concerns
over the performance of the cost of
running like the pure sorbine contracts
than or this matters
right but but if you try to think about
like the spectrum of contracts that
might be interested in in the soroban
only built-in implementation
um it's contracts that are not
interested in being a stellar asset for
some weird reason even though Stellar
assets uh have like you know more you
know ecosystem-wide support so they want
something that is not in the cloud in
the Stellar asset which might be
um you know like i128 instead of i-64s
and it might be because they're
interested in a custom decimal uh value
that's not seven but but at the end of
the day besides that like what are they
getting like why should they do this
yeah
they may just not be interested in uh
like classic Stellar support right and I
I can't I don't know how many people
would fall on that category but uh
that's one reason right
right and and we're not saying that you
can't do it but if we are removing that
contract then basically it'll be
deploying your own contract and it's
less performant
the but the question is like is this
important enough to first class uh lee
uh you unmuted yourself
yeah I feel like
um in the I mean I feel like we always
Place some value or importance on
interoperability and so I think if
you're making a token that will will
interrupt with Stella
classic assets
um I think the network can be
opinionated and say well you know if it
can if it were if it functions like that
it should just show it should just work
it should just be interoperable
um
yeah I really don't see the advantage in
saying like
in even making that an option right
like we can make it we could make it
flexible we can keep it this way so it's
flexible and anybody
um can choose to say no I don't want it
to also be available on Stellar but that
just harms interoperability
yeah
have completely different functionality
where they're incompatible then yeah
that makes sense you know they're only
going to operate on Soren and they're
going to have a great time there but
join the uh the team here
um boots from uh adapt developer
perspective you probably have the most
experience with uh soroban and uh and
the various token contracts uh any any
thoughts
yeah and my thoughts might not be super
cleared out yet but from like a pretty
high level
I guess my expectations would be that
um if I'm going to be attempting to
interact with anything on Stellar
um I would at least expect that
the way that kind of works to be
consistent
um and I I think from you know not
having thought about this too long yet
like option 2.2 kind of speaks the most
to me like at the current moment
and I think the main reason is that
keeps the most separation actually which
said I know you disagree with
um between stellar and sorbon mainly
because if I'm ever going to touch
anything it's Stellar it's never
actually going to leave Stellar Classics
control such that it's going to be a
trust line or some other
um trustline-esque data source that'll
live on stellar and if I ever want to
interact with something that's sorb
unfocused
um that can just exist and saurabhan by
itself
and that kind of keeps a clear line
between the sand uh there was one
comments I made on the dock I mean I
think things for users especially will
get really confusing
um if you're in 2.1 or um or option one
with which is either dual balances or I
have some ability to have a balance on
soroban of a stellar classic asset
um if we have state expiration that can
get really really weird for users to
keep track of
um and trying to solve that Earth think
through some way that you can present
that and make it clear to users is is
quite confusing
um and then just says like a little
second part during during the
conversation after I I um popped up here
I don't really see a reason why we can't
have two separate token contracts
uh you know ones that are actually going
to run and rest and be performant uh one
specifically to interact with assets
that are on cellular Classics so they'll
be able to manage trust lines in one
that's just a reference implementation
of
uh a basic quite usable token so we
don't
have 8 000 different reference
implementations of an erc20
it seems like both of those could be
executed and rested quite easily
can I just said something regarding like
the native or built-in contract and
non-wrapped non-classic tokens so
basically what we need to Define anyway
is the interface and uh like there is
really no value in not implementing the
non-wrap tokens uh in Russia just
because
um like someone would need to do this
anyway and there is literally no benefit
of not doing so because the interface 2
has to be called right it's not like we
can have two contract two contracts
these two different interfaces that uh
you know one would be called classic
only tokens in another one is
now they both have to pull the same
interface so they will effectively be
the same contract no matter how exactly
how where exactly has been implemented
so ideally what we should try for is to
have some standardized token interface
so that contract Traders could reuse it
and you know whether or not there will
be like another implementation series I
don't see any value of not implementing
the
vanilla version that behaves in great
vote points way uh just means a protocol
I don't really see anybody like it
doesn't give us any more freedom than
not implemented in the current interface
uh does it uh fill this requirement the
current standard interface that we have
uh sort of
modular import expert which only it
makes sense for the classic tokens yeah
but yeah of course
okay so we are uh pretty close to uh
being at time are there any other uh big
questions topics that people want to
discuss
yeah so um uh George was uh mentioning
something to me
um uh around how payments and transfers
work um so like payments on Stella and
something that we haven't really
discussed is okay so if this if there is
a single balance or this is even
relevant okay sorry if this is single
balance and someone's doing a transfer
um someone might assume that that would
show up as a payment operation
on the Stellar side so you know you
might look on Horizon and you might be
expecting to see a payment operation my
assumption has always been that these
things wouldn't show up like the the
um
it would be much the same as how
important export works
does anyone have any thoughts about how
that would work
I think and this uh this came up in uh
what what Eric was saying like at the
end of the day uh if you have balances
changing in Horizon you need to provide
um an explanation for why that happens
whether it shows up as like a payment
operation or it shows up as an effect uh
I think we we can discuss but it needs
to show up somehow or else
um you know like value balances are
changing with no explanation correct and
I think I think in the past we discussed
that you know the Import and Export
operations would show up as credit and
debit effects um and so there would be
visibility in that sense
um I guess
uh
yeah I'm just curious like is the fact
that there wouldn't be a payment
operation
um going to be like a really big deal or
not it sounds like you're saying no but
it shouldn't be a problem because this
is no different than when you do it when
you have like trading right like you
have a somebody does a path payment or
whatever and then you know you get
you have like those little no micro
payments happening in between right
uh well your balance changes so it's
just a standout effect not a payment but
uh
just an effect yeah yeah I agree
thank you
but yeah to clarify though this would be
only for uh yeah classic tokens we would
not do like this type of stuff for like
arbitrary tokens on the network by
default
because that's the Horizon question that
I think uh every cut earlier that you
don't want to pull like arbitrary tokens
uh you know into Horizon uh because then
the data model is becomes extremely
complicated
okay I see that we're really almost out
of time I just want to say uh I know
that there's someone with their hand
raised and I know that there's a couple
questions in live chat and we will try
to get to those um after this call but
since we're almost out of time I'll give
it back to Tomer
thanks Justin so um I think
um you know all the responses have been
positive towards single balances I think
this is something that we need to try
and uh prototype and or put a cap around
there are still open questions uh the
the question around opt-in semantics is
uh is a big one and it also depends on
some feedback from more ecosystem
members and and partners and
um uh and you know just giving us some
time to wrap our heads around uh but I
think there is overwhelming support for
single balances and we are going to try
and pursue these
uh thank you all and have a great rest
of your day